Consolidate Cluster Documentation (#1823)
astronomer/docs: astro/modify-cluster.md

If your cluster has multiple worker node pools with different worker node instance types, users in your organization can configure tasks to run on those worker types using [worker queues](configure-deployment-resources.md#worker-queues). To enable a new worker type for your cluster, contact [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support) with a request to create a new node pool or modify an existing node pool.

Astronomer monitors your usage and the number of nodes deployed in your cluster. As your usage of Airflow increases, Astronomer support might contact you and provide recommendations for updating your node pools to optimize your infrastructure spend or increase the efficiency of your tasks.

## Relational databases

Astro clusters are created with and require a relational database. A relational database is required for the data plane and it powers the metadata database of all Astro Deployments within a single cluster. During the cluster creation process, you are asked to specify an relational database instance type according to your use case and expected workload, but it can be modified at any time.

> ## Modify a cluster

Author: @jwitz the changes have been implemented and the structure appears to match what you're suggesting. I'm not clear what you mean by _the "Contact Astronomer support" step should be repeated wherever applicable throughout the guides_. Can you clarify? Alternatively, adjust the documentation to meet your requirements. Thanks!

> ## Modify a cluster

Reviewer: Do you need to push up any local changes? I'm not seeing the updated structure.

For my "Contact Astronomer support" point, I just meant that each cluster modification topic should have its own isolated steps without linking out to a "request and confirm a cluster change" opic.

To change the maximum node count for a node pool, contact [Astronomer Support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support).

## Configure a Database instance type

Every Astro cluster is created with and requires a managed PostgreSQL database. This database serves as a primary relational database for the data plane and powers the metadata database of each Astro Deployment within a single cluster.

Astro uses the following databases:

- AWS: [Amazon RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/)
- GCP: [Cloud SQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql)
- Azure: [Azure Database for PostgreSQL](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/postgresql/)

During the cluster creation process, you are asked to specify a **DB Instance Type** according to your use case and expected workload, but it can be modified at any time. Each database instance type costs a different amount of money and comprises of varying combinations of CPU, memory, and network performance.

> For the list of database instance types available on Astro, see [AWS](resource-reference-aws.md#rds-instance-type), [Azure](resource-reference-azure.md#db-instance-type), or [GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md#db-instance-type). To request a different database instance type, contact [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support).

Reviewer 2: AWS link is not accurate

Author: @chomipi88 I have updated the links. Thank you!

## Authorize Workspaces to a Cluster

<PremiumBadge />

> As an Organization Owner, you can keep teams and projects isolated by authorizing Workspaces only to specific clusters. You can gain greater control over cloud your resources by ensuring that only authorized pipelines are running on specific clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an Organization Owner, you can keep teams and projects isolated by authorizing Workspaces only to specific clusters. You can gain greater control over your cloud resources by ensuring that only authorized pipelines are running on specific clusters.
```

- Add a worker type, which creates a new worker node pool in your cluster and allows your team to select that worker type in a Deployment.
- Authorize a Workspace to a cluster, which ensures that your cluster only host Deployments from a specific Workspace or set of Workspaces.
- Create a VPC connection or a transit gateway connection between your Astro cluster and a target VPC.
- Apply custom tags, which can help your team identify your Astro clusters and associate them with a particular purpose or owner within your cloud provider ecosystem. (AWS only)

Most of these modifications can't be completed in the Cloud UI or with the Astro CLI and require you to contact [Astronomer support](https://support.astronomer.io). Cluster modifications typically take only a few minutes to complete and don't require downtime. In these cases, the Airflow UI and Cloud UI continue to be available and your Airflow tasks are not interrupted.

The information provided here will help you determine which modifications you can make to your clusters on Astro and how to request or apply the modifications. To create a new cluster, see [Create a cluster](create-cluster.md).

## View clusters

> If you don't have a cluster on Astro, see [Install Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/category/install-astro). If you have an existing cluster and you want to create additional clusters, see [Create a cluster](create-cluster.md).

Author: @paolaperaza doc links relocated.

- The region for the cluster.
- The cloud provider Account ID associated with the cluster.
- The size and type of the cluster's database.
- When the cluster was created and last updated.

Some of the configurations in the Cloud UI cannot be changed. Only the listed configurations can be modified by your team.

## Manage worker types

On Astro, worker nodes execute Airflow tasks. Workers are organized through worker node pools, which are sets of configurations that Astro uses to scale up and down workers of a specific instance type. Each worker node pool can be configured with a node instance type and a maximum node count. 

To have a Deployment run Airflow tasks with a specific worker type, you need to work with Astronomer support to create a worker node pool for that worker type on the cluster hosting the Deployment. Then, you can configure a Deployment worker queue to use that worker type. Contact [Astronomer support](https://support.astronomer.io) with the name of the worker type(s) you want to enable in your cluster. For example, `m6i.2xlarge`.

> To confirm a modification was completed, click the **Clusters** tab in the Cloud UI and then click the **Worker Types** tab to view updated configuration information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To confirm that the worker type was added, click the **Clusters** tab in the Cloud UI and then click the **Worker Types** tab to view your new worker type.
```

Is it confusing that we're giving users the instruction to do this even though:
- They don't yet know how to think about worker types
- They'll need to provide maximum node count too

Reviewer 3: Link to WQ docs?

### About worker node pools

> All Astro clusters have one worker node pool for one worker type by default, but you can configure up to 30 additional worker types. After Astronomer creates a worker node pool for a cluster, your team can configure a worker queue in any Deployment with that worker type. The worker type appears as a new option on the **Worker Type** page of the Cloud UI and as an option in the Astro CLI. If your cluster only has one worker type, all tasks across Deployments in your cluster can only run on that type of worker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All Astro clusters have one worker node pool for one worker type by default, but you can configure up to 30 additional worker types. After Astronomer creates a worker node pool for a cluster, your team can configure a worker queue in any Deployment with that worker type. The worker type appears as a new option on the **Worker Type** page of the Cloud UI and as an option in the Astro CLI. If your cluster only has one worker type, all tasks across Deployments in your cluster can only run on that type of worker.
```

Work in that the Worker Type view is part of the worker queue config for a Deployment?

Reviewer: Made an edit to reflect this

> Individual worker nodes run only on a single Deployment, but a worker node pool can have worker nodes spread across multiple Deployments.

Reviewer 3: Move this to paragraph above instead of on its own?

Author: @paolaperaza modified the text as requested.

Creating a worker node pool does not necessarily mean that the infrastructure is created in your cluster. A worker node pool has zero nodes if any of the following are true:

- There are no Deployments in your cluster that have worker queues configured with the worker type.
- There are no default worker queues configured with the worker type. The default worker queue cannot scale to zero workers, but additional worker queues can scale to zero.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

### Configure node instance type

> Each worker type on Astro is configured with a node instance type that is defined by your cloud provider. For example, `m5.2xlarge` on AWS, `Standard_D8_v5` on Azure, or `e2-standard-8` on GCP. Node instance types are comprised of varying combinations of CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity. By choosing a node instance type, you can provide the appropriate balance of resources for your Airflow tasks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each worker type on Astro is configured with a node instance type that is defined by your cloud provider. For example, `m5.2xlarge` on AWS, `Standard_D8_v5` on Azure, or `e2-standard-8` on GCP. Node instance types are comprised of varying combinations of CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity. By choosing an instance type and having workers with different instance types, you can provide the appropriate balance of resources for your Airflow tasks. This might make your DAGs execute faster and more reliably.
```

How your Airflow tasks use the capacity of a worker node depends on which executor is selected for your Deployment. With the Celery executor, each worker node runs a single worker Pod. A worker Pod's actual available size is equivalent to the total capacity of the instance type minus Astro’s system overhead. With the Kubernetes executor, each worker node can run an unlimited number of Pods as long as the sum of all requests from each Pod doesn't exceed the total capacity of the node minus Astro's system overhead.

> To modify the node instance type of an existing worker node pool, contact [Astronomer Support](https://cloud.support.astronomer.io). For the list of worker types available on Astro, see [AWS](resource-reference-aws.md#worker-node-pools), [Azure](resource-reference-azure.md#worker-node-pools), or [GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md#worker-node-pools).

Reviewer 3: Double check these links

Author: @paolaperaza the links have been updated.

To change the maximum node count for a node pool, contact [Astronomer Support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support).

## Configure a Database instance type

Every Astro cluster is created with and requires a managed PostgreSQL database. This database serves as a primary relational database for the data plane and powers the metadata database of each Astro Deployment within a single cluster.

Astro uses the following databases:

- AWS: [Amazon RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/)
- GCP: [Cloud SQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql)
- Azure: [Azure Database for PostgreSQL](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/postgresql/)

During the cluster creation process, you are asked to specify a **DB Instance Type** according to your use case and expected workload, but it can be modified at any time. Each database instance type costs a different amount of money and comprises of varying combinations of CPU, memory, and network performance.

> For the list of database instance types available on Astro, see [AWS](resource-reference-aws.md#rds-instance-type), [Azure](resource-reference-azure.md#db-instance-type), or [GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md#db-instance-type). To request a different database instance type, contact [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support).

Reviewer 3: Double check links -- I think these sections don't actually exist yet :) https://github.com/astronomer/docs/issues/1904

Author: @paolaperaza I have updated the links and verified they work.

Every Astro cluster is created with and requires a managed PostgreSQL database. This database serves as a primary relational database for the data plane and powers the metadata database of each Astro Deployment within a single cluster.

Astro uses the following databases:

- AWS: [Amazon RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/)
- GCP: [Cloud SQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql)
- Azure: [Azure Database for PostgreSQL](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/postgresql/)

During the cluster creation process, you are asked to specify a **DB Instance Type** according to your use case and expected workload, but it can be modified at any time. Each database instance type costs a different amount of money and comprises of varying combinations of CPU, memory, and network performance.

For the list of database instance types available on Astro, see [AWS](resource-reference-aws.md#rds-instance-type), [Azure](resource-reference-azure.md#db-instance-type), or [GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md#db-instance-type). To request a different database instance type, contact [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support).

## Authorize Workspaces to a Cluster

<PremiumBadge />

> As an Organization Owner, you can keep teams and projects isolated by authorizing Workspaces only to specific Clusters. Gain greater management over cloud resources by ensuring that only authorized pipelines are running on specific clusters.

Reviewer 3: I actually still think we're not doing an amazing job of giving examples/explaining WHY a customer does this -- is it to protect production clusters from having noisy dev Deployments? To keep teams isolated/be able to charge them $$ independently? Is it a user permissions things?

We should keep looping with @chomipi88 on this to get there

Reviewer: I added a suggestion below in your comment, but I actually think "keep teams and projects isolated " is a pretty elegant phrase to cover a lot of the use cases you mention.

> As an Organization Owner, you can keep teams and projects isolated by authorizing Workspaces only to specific clusters. You can gain greater control over cloud your resources by ensuring that only authorized pipelines are running on specific clusters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As an Organization Owner, you can keep teams and projects isolated by authorizing Workspaces only to specific clusters. You can gain greater control over your cloud resources by ensuring that only authorized pipelines are running on specific clusters.
```

The information provided here will help you determine which modifications you can make to your clusters on Astro and how to request or apply the modifications. To create a new cluster, see [Create a cluster](create-cluster.md).

## View clusters

If you don't have a cluster on Astro, see [Install Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/category/install-astro). If you have an existing cluster and you want to create additional clusters, see [Create a cluster](create-cluster.md).

In the Cloud UI, click the **Clusters** tab to view a list of the clustersthat are available to your Organization. Click a cluster and then click the **Worker Types**, **Workspace Authorization**, or **Details** tabs to view cluster information including:

- The region for the cluster.
- The cloud provider Account ID associated with the cluster.
- The size and type of the cluster's database.
- When the cluster was created and last updated.

Some of the configurations in the Cloud UI cannot be changed. Only the listed configurations can be modified by your team.

## Manage worker types

> A worker type on Astro is a node pool in your cluster that consists of worker nodes of the same node instance type. On Astro, worker nodes execute Airflow tasks. Each worker node pool can be configured with a node instance type and a maximum node count. Contact [Astronomer support](https://support.astronomer.io) with the name of the worker type(s) you want to enable in your cluster. For example, `m6i.2xlarge`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Astro, worker nodes execute Airflow tasks. Workers are organized through worker node pools, which are sets of configurations that Astro uses to scale up and down workers of a specific instance type. Each worker node pool can be configured with a node instance type and a maximum node count. 

To have a Deployment run Airflow tasks with a specific worker type, you need to work with Astronomer support to create a worker node pool for that worker type on the cluster hosting the Deployment. Then, you can configure a Deployment worker queue to use that worker type. Contact [Astronomer support](https://support.astronomer.io) with the name of the worker type(s) you want to enable in your cluster. For example, `m6i.2xlarge`.
```

To confirm a modification was completed, click the **Clusters** tab in the Cloud UI and then click the **Worker Types** tab to view updated configuration information.

### About worker node pools

All Astro clusters have one worker node pool for one worker type by default, but you can configure up to 30 additional worker types. After you create a worker node pool for a cluster, your team can configure a worker queue in any Deployment with that worker type. The worker type appears as a new option on the **Worker Type** page of the Cloud UI and as an option in the Astro CLI. If your cluster only has one worker type, all tasks across Deployments in your cluster can only run on that type of worker.

> Individual worker nodes are dedicated to a single Deployment, but a worker node pool can have worker nodes for multiple Deployments. For example, a cluster with a node pool for `m5.2xlarge` nodes might have many worker nodes that scale up as your workload increases and that each run tasks for different Deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Individual worker nodes run only on a single Deployment, but a worker node pool can have worker nodes spread across multiple Deployments.
```

Reviewer: I didn't think the example here added much besides lending a node type to work with.

> Creating a worker node pool does not necessarily mean that the infrastructure is created in your cluster. For example, you can create a worker node pool to allow your team to use that worker type when it is needed. A worker node pool has zero nodes if any of the following is true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a worker node pool does not necessarily mean that the infrastructure is created in your cluster. A worker node pool has zero nodes if any of the following are true:
```

- There are no Deployments in your cluster that have worker queues configured with the worker type.
- There are no default worker queues configured with the worker type. The default worker queue cannot scale to zero workers, but additional worker queues can scale to zero.

> To create or modify a worker type, contact [Astronomer Support](https://cloud.support.astronomer.io). To learn more about worker queues, see [Configure worker queues](configure-worker-queues.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We mention these steps above, I think it's better to keep this section as reference?

> To create or modify a worker type, contact [Astronomer Support](https://cloud.support.astronomer.io). To learn more about worker queues, see [Configure worker queues](configure-worker-queues.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We mention these steps above, I think it's better to keep this section as reference?

To modify the node instance type of an existing worker node pool, contact [Astronomer Support](https://cloud.support.astronomer.io). For the list of worker types available on Astro, see [AWS](resource-reference-aws.md#worker-node-pools), [Azure](resource-reference-azure.md#worker-node-pools), or [GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md#worker-node-pools).

### Configure maximum node count

Each worker node pool on Astro must be configured with a **Maximum Node Count**, which represents the maximum total number of nodes that a worker node pool can have at any given time across Deployments. The default maximum node count for each worker node pool is 20. When this limit is reached, the worker node pool can't auto-scale and worker Pods may fail to schedule. A cluster's node count is most affected by the number of tasks that are running at the same time across your cluster, and the number of worker Pods that are executing those tasks. See [Worker autoscaling logic](configure-worker-queues.md#worker-autoscaling-logic).

> Maximum node count is different than **Maximum Worker Count**, which is configured for each worker queue and determines the maximum total number of nodes that a worker queue within a single Deployment can scale to. Maximum node count for a worker pool in your cluster must always be equal to or greater than the sum of all maximum worker count values for all worker queues that are configured with that worker type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maximum node count is different than **Maximum Worker Count**, which is configured within the Cloud UI for each worker queue and determines the maximum total number of nodes that the worker queue can scale to. Maximum node count for a node pool must always be equal to or greater than the sum of all maximum possible workers across all worker queues that are configured with that worker node type.
```

> For example, if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, consider the following configurations within a cluster:
```

- You have 3 Deployments that each have 1 worker queue configured with the `m5.2xlarge` worker type for a total of 3 worker queues.
- 1 of the 3 worker queues has a maximum worker count of 10.
- 2 of the 3 worker queues have a maximum worker count of 5.

> - The maximum node count for the `m5.2xlarge` node pool in your cluster must be equal to or greater than 15 to make sure that each worker queue can scale to its limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In this scenario, the maximum node count for the `m5.2xlarge` node pool in your cluster must be equal to or greater than 15 to make sure that each worker queue can scale to its limit.
```

Astronomer regularly monitors your usage and the number of nodes deployed in your cluster. As your usage of Airflow increases, Astronomer support might contact you and recommend that you increase or decrease your maximum node count to limit infrastructure cost or ensure that you can support a growing number of tasks and Deployments. If your maximum node count is reached, you will be contacted.

> To change the maximum node count for a node pool, contact [Astronomer Support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To change the maximum node count for a node pool, contact [Astronomer Support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support).
```

For the list of database instance types available on Astro, see [AWS](resource-reference-aws.md#rds-instance-type), [Azure](resource-reference-azure.md#db-instance-type), or [GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md#db-instance-type). To request a different database instance type, contact [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support).

## Authorize Workspaces to a Cluster

<PremiumBadge />

As an Organization Owner, you can keep teams and projects isolated by authorizing Workspaces only to specific clusters. You can gain greater control over cloud your resources by ensuring that only authorized pipelines are running on specific clusters.

1. In the Cloud UI, click the **Clusters** tab and then select a cluster.
2. Click the **Workspace Authorization** tab and then click **Edit Workspace Authorization**.
3. Click **Restricted** and select the Workspaces that you want to map to the cluster. 
4. Click **Update**.

> After you authorize Workspaces to a cluster, Astro treats the Cluster as restricted. Restricted clusters appear as an option when creating a new Deployment only if the Deployment's Workspace is authorized to the cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you authorize Workspaces to a cluster, Astro treats the cluster as restricted. Restricted clusters appear as an option when creating a new Deployment only if the Deployment's Workspace is authorized to the cluster. 
```
